   Cover letter

To address the reviewers' feedback, our revision paper has the following modificaiton.

Sec 1. Introduction
  Feedback: Making Figure 2 more legible, and including a more detailed explanation of 
  the different adaptivity mechanisms.

  Our solution: We make Figure 2 bigger, add more desciptions on the mechanisms we use and more text desciptions
  on the interpretation of the three subgraph in Figure 2, in particular, Figure 2.(a) and (c). between line 85 to 119.

Sec 2.  Overview.
    Feedback: More explanation of the semantics-based dependency graph in Figure 3, including the lambda tau. rho (tau) k notation. Also, consider
     replacing it with notation that is easier to search using PDF readers such as lastVal(tau, k).

    Our solution: Add more description on Fig3.(b), use the notation of lastVal(tau, k) from line 330 to 352. 
    The notation is listed in a notation table in Section 3 as well. Fig 3(b) is updated with a short
    weight notation.

Sec 3. 
    Feedback:improve the presentation of notation by having a table summarizing it
    Our solution: We have a table of notations in section 3.

    Feedback: simplify the technical parts of the paper, 
    by relating the concepts we introduce to known concepts and explaining the differences
    Our solution: We plan to remove most rules of trace-based operational semantics. only focus on 
    the novel one, query assignment.


Sec 4. 
    Feedback: Intuitive explanations and reduction in notational overhead
    1. Suggest ways of reading all introduced notations in English, For example, is it possible to read Diff(e1, e2) as "differing colocated events e1 and e2"..
    2. Reduce demands on the reader to closely track introduced notation. 
    3.Consider rewriting Definition 1 as ..
    4.Provide an intuitive explanation of =_q in the above defintion.
    5. Rewrite Definitions 2 and 4 to make them more approachable

    Our solution: 
    1. Rewrite Definition 1,2,3,4, reading all notations in English.
    2. These used notations are listed in notation table now.
    3. Definition 1 rewrote, line 514.
    4. The explanation of =_q with examples between lines 525 and 530.
    5. Definition 2, 3,4 are rewrote.

Sec 5.
    Feedback: Proof of Lemma 5.1, either in the main paper or in the appendix. 
    In any case, include at least a proof sketch in the main paper.

    Our solution: The full proof of Lemma5.1 is in the appendix C in the supplementary material.
    The proof sketch in the main paper is added between line 683 and 730.

    Feedback: improve the description of Algorithm 1, explaining how this algorithm handles examples
    with multiple-level nested loops and produce non-linear adaptivity upper bounds.
    Our solution: We add the desciptions of how our algorithm estimates an examples with nested while loops
    and produces a non-linear upper bound. Line 874 to Line 898.

Sec 6. 
   Feedback:Clarify that AdaptFun is not path-sensitive in general.
   Our Solution: We add the clear statement in Sec 6 that our tool is not path sensitive.
   We update Fig 6(b) with short weight notations.

Sec 7.
    Feedback: improve the desciptions of the evaluation, providing more details of the timeout and motivations
    for the alternative implementation AdaptFun-I.
    Our solution: We add the detailed desciptions of the evaluation of complicated examples with multi-level nested loops
    and explain the motivation of having AdapFun-I as a complement to AdaptFun. Line 972 -1020
